- [Instructor] Let's get started with Flux, to do that.
We'll need to bootstrap the operator
into our Kubernetes cluster.
To help us, we can use the getting started path
on the Flux website.
And here, I want to draw your attention
to the prerequisites.
First you'll need kubectl installed,
and it needs to be connected to our Kubernetes cluster
running in Azure.
Now, we'll also need a personal access token from GitHub.
Here you can see two commands.
One establishes a variable with the token,
another establishes a variable with our account name.
These are used by Flux to create a repository on our behalf
that it uses to manage its configuration.
Let's navigate over to GitHub,
and we can start to create a personal access token
by clicking the drop down next to our profile,
and then selecting settings.
Inside of the settings, if we scroll down,
you'll find the developer setting section.
Here, we can select personal access tokens,
and then click on this button to generate a new token.
We'll need to give the token a name.
I'm just going to call mine booth,
which is the name of my machine.
And then we need to grant the token
all of the repository scopes.
These are the permissions that Flux will need
to create the repository for us.
Once you've done that, go ahead and click on generate token.
This is going to cause GitHub
to give you a new, personal access token.
You can see it there.
Go ahead and copy it and then place it someplace safe.
You're never going to see it again.
I've created a text file where I'm going to place my token
into the two commands we saw.
So I'll just paste the token there.
And then I'll put my GitHub user ID.
Let's go ahead and copy these commands
and then we'll take them over to a terminal
and establish the variables.
All right. So that setup,
let's go back at this point
to the Flux getting started guide
and here's where we'll find the command to install Flux.
Now I'm using Linux.
So I'm going to select this version, I'll copy it,
take it over to my terminal and then once again,
paste the command and execute it.
Whoops. It looks like I missed a C on that.
All right.
So, there we can see Flux begins to download and install.
Let's just check it out to make sure the install went well.
Yup. It looks like it's installed.
Now, I want to draw your attention to the bootstrap command.
It does two things.
First, it establishes that configuration repository
in GitHub that we talked about.
In that repository, we're able to store things like
custom resource definitions that Flux uses to manage itself.
Now it's also going to deploy controllers
into our Kubernetes cluster running on Azure.
So when we use this command,
it's typically used for your particular
source control management system in our case GitHub.
And with the GitHub approach,
you can use it for an organization or a personal account.
Now I'm using it for my organization.
So here you can see the owner is my organization name.
There's the name of the repository
that's going to be created.
And then this path will be created inside the repo.
And that's where we're going to place those custom resource
definitions we talked about,
things like our sources and customizations.
We'll talk about those later.
Okay. So it looks like Flux has finished bootstrapping
and you'll notice these controllers that were deployed
on the cluster here at the bottom of the command.
Let's head over to Azure and we can take a peek at those.
So here's our Kubernetes cluster, we'll navigate into that.
And then if we look at the workloads on the cluster,
you're going to see those controllers
that make up the Flux system
and that perform the actual GitOps work
that needs to be done for all the reconciliation.
All right. We just have one last thing
that we need to do.
Within GitHub, you'll notice
that the configuration repository has been created for Flux.
Here's where those CRDs go.
I'm going to go ahead and clone this repository.
Now, I use SSH so I'm going to leave that option selected
and just copy the link and then head back to the terminal.
And here I can go ahead, use git clone,
and then make a copy of the repo.
We need to clone this repository locally,
so that as we build those custom resource definitions,
we can commit them and push them
to that configuration repository for Flux that's in GitHub
because you got to remember, Flux uses a GitOps approach
to manage itself.
Okay. So that's how you bootstrap Flux
into a Kubernetes cluster.
Next, we're going to talk about those controllers we solved
and how Flux uses them to manage its approach to GitOps.